### **Smash**-and-grab

#### Smash
verb UK ​  /smæʃ/ US ​  /smæʃ/
smash verb (BREAK NOISILY)
to cause something to break noisily into a lot of small pieces:
Rioters ran through the city, smashing windows and **looting** shops.

#### rioters
noun UK ​  /ˈraɪ.ət/ US ​  /ˈraɪ.ət/  
a noisy, violent, and uncontrolled public meeting:  
Inner-city riots erupted when a local man was shot by police.  

#### looting
noun [ U ] UK ​  /ˈluː.tɪŋ/ US ​  /ˈluː.t̬ɪŋ/  
the activity of stealing from shops during a violent event:  
There were reports of widespread looting as **hooligans** **stampeded** through the city centre.  

#### grab  
(græb)  
to take illegal possession of;  
seize **forcibly** or **unscrupulously**:   
to grab land.

#### unscrupulously

### How did Mr. Taylor try to stop the thieves?
### The expensive shops in a famous near Piccadilly were just "opening. At this time of the morning, the **arcade** was almost empty. 

#### arcade
noun [ C ] UK ​  /ɑːˈkeɪd/ US ​  /ɑːrˈkeɪd/
a covered area or passage in which there are shops:  
a shopping arcade.

### Mr. Taylor, the owner of a jewellery shop was **admiring** a new **display**.  

#### display
noun UK ​  /dɪˈspleɪ/ US ​  /dɪˈspleɪ/
​a collection of objects or pictures arranged for people to look at, or a performance or show for people to watch:  
There's an Egyptian art collection on display (= being shown) at the museum at the moment.

### Two of his assistants had been working busily since eight o'clock and had only just finished. Diamond necklaces and rings had been beautifully arranged on a background of black **velvet**. 

### velvet  
noun [ U ] UK ​  /ˈvel.vɪt/ US ​  /ˈvel.vɪt/​  
a cloth usually made from silk or cotton with a thick, soft surface:
Her skin was as soft as velvet.  


### After gazing at the display for several minutes, Mr. Taylor went back into his shop.
The silence was suddenly broken when a large car, with its headlights on and its home **blaring**, **roared** down the arcade.

#### blaring
blare  
verb [ I or T ] UK ​  /bleər/ US ​  /bler/  
to make an unpleasantly loud noise:  
The loudspeakers blared across the square.

#### roared
roar  
verb UK ​  /rɔːr/ US ​  /rɔːr/  
C2 [ I ] to make a long, loud, deep sound:  
We could hear the lions roaring at the other end of the zoo.

### It came to a stop outside the jeweller's. One man stayed at the wheel while two others with black **stocking** over their faces jumped out and smashed the window of the shop with iron bars. 

#### stocking
noun [ C ] UK ​  /ˈstɒk.ɪŋ/ US ​  /ˈstɑː.kɪŋ/  
C1 one of a pair of tight-fitting coverings for the feet and legs made of light material and worn by women:  
nylon/silk stockings.

#### bar noun [ C ] (LONG PIECE)  
a long, thin, straight piece of metal or wood:  
The **gorilla** **rattled** the bars of its **cage**.

#### gorilla
noun [ C ] UK ​  /ɡəˈrɪl.ə/ US ​  /ɡəˈrɪl.ə/    
a large ape that comes from western Africa  

#### rattled
adjective UK ​  /ˈræt.əld/ US ​  /ˈræt̬.əld/ informal  
worried or nervous:  
Walter got rattled when they didn’t call.  

#### cage
noun [ C ] UK ​  /keɪdʒ/ US ​  /keɪdʒ/  
a space surrounded on all sides by bars or wire, in which animals or birds are kept  

While this was going on, Mr. Taylor was upstairs. He and his staff began throwing furniture out of the window. Chairs and tables went flying into the arcade. One of the thieves was struck by a heavy statue, but he was too busy helping himself to diamonds to notice any pain. The **raid** was all over in three minutes, for the men **scrambled** back into the car and it moved off at a fantastic speed. Just as it was leaving, Mr. Taylor rushed out and ran after it throwing **ashtrays** and **vases**, but it was impossible to stop the thieves. They had got away with thousands of pounds worth of diamonds. 

### raid
noun [ C ] UK
a short sudden attack, usually by a small group of people:  
The **commandos** made/**staged**/carried out a **daring** raid (on the enemy).

#### commando 
noun [ C ] UK ​  /kəˈmɑːn.dəʊ/ US ​  /kəˈmæn.doʊ/ plural commandos or commandoes  
a soldier who is specially trained to make attacks on enemy areas that are very dangerous or difficult to attack:  
He was an experienced commando with 13 years in the Special Forces.
























