### Our _vicar_ is always raising money for one cause or another, but he has never managed to get enough money to have the church clock repaired.

#### vicar (vɪkəʳ )
countable noun  
A vicar is an **Anglican** **priest** who is in charge of a church and the area it is in, which is called a **parish**.

#### Anglican (æŋglɪkən )
Word forms: plural Anglicans  
adjective  
Anglican means belonging or relating to the Church of England, or to the churches related to it.  
...the Anglican Church.

#### priest (priːst  )
Word forms: plural priests  
countable noun  
A priest is a member of the Christian **clergy** in the Catholic, Anglican, or **Orthodox** church.
He had trained to be a **Catholic** priest.

#### Catholic  (kæθlɪk  )  

#### clergy UK ​ /ˈklɜː.dʒi/  
noun [ plural ]  
religious leaders, especially Christian priests, **ministers**, etc.:  
We were surprised when he announced he wanted to join the clergy.

#### minister
A minister is a member of the clergy, especially in **Protestant** churches.
His father was a **Baptist** minister.

#### Protestant  (prɒtɪstənt)  
countable noun
A Protestant is a Christian who belongs to the branch of the Christian church which separated from the Catholic church in the sixteenth century.

#### orthodox (ɔːʳθədɒks  )
adjective  
The Orthodox churches are Christian churches in Eastern Europe which separated from the western church in the eleventh century.  
...the Greek Orthodox Church.

#### parish (pærɪʃ  )  
Word forms: plural parishes  
countable noun   
A parish is a village or part of a town which has its own church and priest.   
...the parish of St Mark's, Lakenham.

### he caught sight of a figure whom he immediately recognized as Bill Wilkins, our local _grocer_. 

#### grocer
(groʊsəʳ  )  countable noun  
A grocer is a shopkeeper who sells foods such as flour, sugar, and **tinned** foods.

#### tin
countable noun  
A tin is a metal container which is filled with food and sealed in order to preserve the food for long periods of time.
