### These days, people who do manual work often receive far more money than people who work in offices. 

#### manual
adjective UK ​  /ˈmæn.ju.əl/   
involving physical work rather than mental work:  
unskilled manual labour.

### People who work in offices are frequently referred to as "white-collar workers' for the simple reason that they usually wear a _collar_ and tie to go to work. Such is human nature, that a great many people are often willing to _sacrifice_ higher pay for the privilege of becoming white-collar workers. 

#### collar  
noun [ C ] UK ​  /ˈkɒl.ər/ US ​  /ˈkɑː.lɚ/  
the part around the neck of a piece of clothing, usually **sewn** on and sometimes made of different material:  
a shirt collar

#### sacrifice
verb UK ​  /ˈsæk.rɪ.faɪs/ US ​/ˈsæk.rə.faɪs/  
​to give up something that is valuable to you in order to help another person:  
Many women sacrifice interesting careers for their families.  

#### sewn
sew
verb UK ​  /səʊ/ US ​  /soʊ/ sewed, sewn or sewed
to join two pieces of cloth together by putting thread through them with a needle:  
My grandmother taught me to sew.  

### This can give rise to curious situations, as it did in the case of Alfred Bloggs who worked as a dustman for the Ellesmere Corporation.When he got married, Alf was too embarrassed to say anything to his wife about his job. He simply told her that he worked for the Corporation. Every morning, he left home dressed in a smart black suit. He then changed into overalls and spent the next eight hours as a dustman. 

#### overalls coveralls 
noun [ plural ] UK ​  /ˈəʊ.vər.ɔːlz/ US ​  /ˈoʊ.vɚ.ɑːlz/  
  
a piece of clothing that covers both the upper and lower parts of the body and is worn especially over other clothes to protect them  

### Before returning home at night. He took a shower and changed back into his suit. Alf did this for over two years and his fellow dustmen kept his secret Alf's wife has never discovered that she married a dustman and she never will, for Alf has just found another job. He will soon be working in an office. He will be earning only half as much as he used to, but he feels that his rise in **status** is well worth the **loss** of money. From now on, he will wear a suit all day and others will call him 'Mr. Bloggs', not 'Alf'.

#### status
noun UK ​  /ˈsteɪ.təs/ US ​  /ˈsteɪ.t̬əs/
status noun (OFFICIAL POSITION)
an accepted or official position, especially in a social group:  

The **association** works to promote the status of retired people as useful members of the community.  
 
#### association
noun UK ​  /əˌsəʊ.siˈeɪ.ʃən/ US ​  /əˌsoʊ.siˈeɪ.ʃən/
association noun (GROUP)  
​a group of people who work together in a single organization for a particular purpose:  
The Football Association  

#### loss
noun UK ​  /lɒs/ US ​  /lɑːs/  
​the fact that you no longer have something or have less of something:  
Many parents feel a **sense** of loss when their children leave home.

#### sense
a general feeling or understanding:  
Did you get any sense of how they might react?  

