## 查1 小时朗读1 小时。以时间为单位，不以个数为单位一直朗读到完全吃透解释和例句为止
## Lesson 1 A Puma at large

#### Where must the puma have come from ?

#### Pumas are large, cat-like animals which are found in America.When *reports* came into London Zoo that a wild puma had been *spotted* forty-five miles south of London, they were not taken seriously.

#### report
countable noun
If you give someone a report on something, you tell them what has been happening.

#### spot - spotted
locate or identify by seeing

#### However, as the *evidence* began to *accumulate*, experts from the Zoo felt *obliged* to *investigate*, for the descriptions given by people who claimed to have seen the puma were *extraordinarily* similar.

#### evidence
noun [ U ] US ​ /ˈev·ɪ·dəns/
anything that helps to prove that something is or is not true:
These figures are being given as evidence of economic growth.

#### accumulate
verb [ I/T ] US ​ /əˈkjum·jəˌleɪt/
​to collect or increase something *gradually*, esp. over a period of time:
We’ve accumulated a lot of junk over the years.

#### gradually
(grædʒuəli)
adverb [ADVERB with verb]
If something changes or is done gradually, it changes or is done in small *stages* over a long period of time, rather than suddenly.

#### stages
in stages
If you do something in stages, you divide the activity into parts and complete each part separately:
We're decorating the house in stages so it won't be ready for another couple of months.

#### obliged
adjective [ after verb ]
UK ​ /əˈblaɪdʒd/ US ​ /əˈblaɪdʒd/
to be forced to do something or feel that you must do something:
Doctors are *legally* obliged to take certain *precautions*.

#### legally
adverb UK ​ /ˈliː.ɡəl.i/ US ​ /ˈliː.ɡəl.i/
as *stated* by the law:
Children under 16 are not legally allowed to buy cigarettes.

#### stated
(ˈsteɪtɪd) adjective
determined by agreement; fixed

#### precautions
noun [ C ] US ​ /prɪˈkɔ·ʃən/
an action taken to prevent something unpleasant or dangerous from happening:
Homeowners should take the basic precaution of locking their doors and windows.

#### investigate
verb [ I/T ] US ​ /ɪnˈves·tɪˌɡeɪt/
to examine something carefully, esp. to discover the truth about it:
[ I ] There was a *suspicious* man near the playground, and we asked the police to investigate.

#### suspicious
adjective US ​ /səˈspɪʃ·əs/
suspicious adjective (FEELING DOUBT)
feeling doubt or a lack of trust:
Many of the workers were suspicious of the labor agreement.

#### extraordinarily
adverb UK ​ /ɪkˈstrɔː.dɪn.ər.əl.i/ US /ɪkˈstrɔːr.dən.er.əl.i/
very; more than usual:
She is, it must be said, extraordinarily beautiful.

#### The hunt for the puma began in a small village where a woman picking blackberries saw 'a large cat' only five yards away from her.

#### It immediately ran away when she saw it, and experts confirmed that a puma will not attack a human being unless it is *cornered*.

#### cornered
​to force a person or an animal into a place or situation from which they cannot easily escape:
Once the police had cornered her in the basement, she gave herself up.

#### The search *proved* difficult, for the puma was often **observed** at one place in the morning and at another place twenty miles away in the evening. Wherever it went, it left behind it a *trail* of dead deer and small animals like rabbits.

#### observe
observe verb [ T ] (NOTICE)
to notice or see:
Jack observed a look of **anxiety** on his brother's face.

#### anxiety
noun UK ​ /æŋˈzaɪ.ə.ti/
an uncomfortable feeling of nervousness or worry about something that is happening or might happen in the future:
Children normally feel a lot of anxiety about their first day at school.

#### prove
prove verb (SHOW)
to show after a time or by experience that something or someone has a particular quality:
The *dispute* over rights to the song could prove impossible to *resolve*.

#### dispute
noun [ C or U ] UK ​ /dɪˈspjuːt/
an argument or disagreement, especially an official one between, for example, workers and employers or two countries with a common border:
a *bitter*/long-running dispute

#### bitter
adjective
In a bitter argument or conflict, people argue very angrily or fight very *fiercely*.
...the scene of bitter fighting during the Second World War.

#### scene
noun UK ​ /siːn/
a part of a play or film in which the action stays in one place for a continuous period of time:
the wedding scene

#### fierce
(fɪəs) adjective
Fierce feelings or actions are very *intense* or *enthusiastic*, or involve great activity.
Competition has been fierce to win a *stake* in Skoda.

#### sweat
(swet  )
uncountable noun
Sweat is the salty colourless liquid which comes through your skin when you are hot, ill, or afraid.
Both horse and rider were (_dripping with sweat_) within five minutes.

#### drip
verb
When liquid drips somewhere, or you drip it somewhere, it falls in individual small drops.
Sit your child forward and let the blood drip into a tissue or on to the floor. [VERB preposition/adverb]

#### intense
(ɪntens) adjective
Intense is used to describe something that is very great or extreme in strength or degree.
He was sweating from the (_intense heat_).

enthusiastic
(ɪnθjuːziæstɪk  , US -θuː-  )
adjective
If you are enthusiastic about something, you show how much you like or enjoy it by the way that you behave and talk.
Tom was very (_enthusiastic about_) the place. [+ about]

#### strength
(streŋθ  )
uncountable noun
Your strength is the physical energy that you have, which gives you the ability to perform various actions, such as lifting or moving things.
She has always been encouraged to swim to build up the (_strength of_) her muscles. [+ of]

#### stake
noun UK ​ /steɪk/ US ​
[ C, usually singular ]
FINANCE
the amount that someone has invested in a company, often expressed as a percentage of the total share capital (= money invested in a business in the form of shares):
a 15%/3%/10%, etc. stake
His (_22% stake_) makes him the *retailer's* biggest shareholder.

#### retailer
noun [ C ] UK ​ /ˈriːteɪlər/ US ​ COMMERCE
a company that sells goods to the public in stores and on the internet, rather than to stores, other businesses, etc.:
Manufacturers and retailers are responding to growing consumer demand.

#### resolve
verb UK ​ /rɪˈzɒlv/ US ​ /rɪˈzɑːlv/
resolve verb (SOLVE)
C1 [ T ] to solve or end a problem or difficulty:
Have you resolved the problem of *transport* yet?

#### transport
noun UK ​ /ˈtræn.spɔːt/ US ​ /ˈtræn.spɔːrt/
transport noun (GOODS/PEOPLE)
B2 [ U ] the movement of people or goods from one place to another:
the Department of Transport
