### The facts

#### facts
exact detailed information

### What was the **consequence** of the editor's **insistence** on facts and **statistics**?

#### consequence
noun [ C ]  
UK ​  /ˈkɒn.sɪ.kwəns/  US ​  /ˈkɑːn.sə.kwəns/  
a result of a particular action or situation, often one that is bad or not **convenient**:  
Not making a **will** can have serious consequences for your children and other family members.

#### convenient
adjective UK ​  /kənˈviː.ni.ənt/ US ​  /kənˈviː.ni.ənt/  
near or easy to get to or use:  
a very convenient bus service.

#### will 
an official statement of what a person has decided should be done with their money and property after their death:  
Have you made a will yet?

### insistence
noun [ U ]  
UK ​  /ɪnˈsɪs.təns/ US ​  /ɪnˈsɪs.təns/  
an occasion when you demand something and refuse to accept opposition, or when you say firmly that something is true:  
Insistence on better working conditions by the union has resulted in fewer employee absences.

#### statistics
noun UK ​  /stəˈtɪs.tɪk/ US ​  /stəˈtɪs.tɪk/  
information based on a study of the number of times something happens or is present, or other numerical facts:  
Statistics show/suggest that women live longer than men.

### Editors of newspapers and magazines often go to **extremes** to provide their reader with unimportant facts and statistics.

#### extreme
adjective  
exceeding what is usual or reasonable;  
very severe or bad:  
extreme weather conditions  
In extreme cases, the disease can lead to blindness.

### Last year a journalist had been **instructed** by a well-known magazine to write an article on the president's palace in a new African republic.

####  instruct
verb UK ​  /ɪnˈstrʌkt/ US ​  /ɪnˈstrʌkt/  
to order or tell someone to do something, especially in a formal way:  
The police have been instructed to **patrol** the building and surrounding area.  

#### patrol
verb [ I or T ] UK ​  /pəˈtrəʊl/ US ​  /pəˈtroʊl/   
(especially of soldiers or the police) to go around an area or a building to see if there is any trouble or danger:  
The whole town is patrolled by police because of the possibility of **riots**.

#### riot
noun UK ​  /ˈraɪ.ət/ US ​  /ˈraɪ.ət/  
​a noisy, violent, and uncontrolled public meeting
Inner-city riots **erupted** when a local man was shot by police.

#### erupt
verb UK ​  /ɪˈrʌpt/ US ​  /ɪˈrʌpt/  
​When a volcano erupts, it explodes and flames and rocks come out of it.  
Since the volcano last erupted, many houses have been built in a dangerous position on its slopes.

### When the article arrived, the editor read the first sentence and then refuse to publish it. The article began: 'Hundreds of steps lead to the high wall which surrounds the president's palace'.
The editor at once sent the journalist a fax instructing him find out the exact number of steps and the height of the wall.
The journalist immediately set out to obtain these important facts, but the took a long time to send them Meanwhile, the editor was getting impatient, for the magazine would soon go to press. 
He sent the journalist two more faxes, but received no reply. He sent yet another fax informing the journalist that if he did not reply soon he would be fired. 
When the journalist again failed to reply, the editor **reluctantly** published the article as it had originally been written. 

#### reluctantly

### A week later, the editor at last received a fax from the journalist. Not only had the poor man been arrested, but he had been sent to prison as well. 
However, he had at last been allowed to send a fax in which he informed the editor that the he had been arrested while counting the 1,084 steps leading to the fifteen-foot wall which surrounded the president's palace.















